in the near future humanity is preparing
to launch an attack on the whole world
of an
alien race called the formics who had
attacked earth and killed millions
the formic invasion was stopped by maser
reckham who crashed his f-35 lightning
ii
into a formic queen ship at the apparent
cost
of his life over the course of 50 years
gifted children are trained by the
international fleet
to become commanders of a new fleet for
this counter-attack
twelve-year-old cadet andrew ender
wiggin draws the attention of colonel
hiram graff
and major gwen anderson by his aptitude
in simulated space combat
they ordered the removal of his monitor
signifying the end of the cadet program
ender is attacked by stilson a bully
student he defeated in the combat sim
but ender fights back and severely
injures him
ender confesses his grief to his older
sister valentine
but is harassed further by their older
brother peter
that evening while the family is having
dinner graff arrives to reveal he was
being tested
and is still part of the program graf
brings ender to battle school
an orbiting space station in earth's
orbit placing ender with other cadets
his age
but treats him as extraordinary
ostracizing him from others
among other studies the cadets are
placed in squads
and perform training games in a
zero-gravity battle room
ender quickly adapts to the games
devising new strategies older students
have not
yet seen graf re assigns ender to the
salamander army led by commander bonzo
madrid
a short fitter but intimidating squad
leader
bonzo believing that ender is inept due
to his size
prevents him from training with the rest
of the squad another cadet
petra arcanian takes ender and trains
him privately
while bonzo is aware of this he does not
take any action against petra
in one match bonzo orders ender to stay
behind while the rest of the salamander
army fights another team
however seeing petra in trouble ender
comes to her aid and helps the
salamander army win
after the match bonzo is humiliated by
the other students and threatens ender
if he embarrasses him
again meanwhile ender plays a
computerized mind game
set in a fantasy world aimed to present
difficult choices to the player
in one situation ender creates an
outside the box solution
to overcome a seemingly unsolvable
problem
later he encounters a formic in the game
and then
a simulated image of valentine entering
the ruins of a castle
inside he finds another image of
valentine but as he nears
it turns into an image of peter before
the game ends
graff promotes ender to his own squad
made from other students that have
gained ender's trust
they are put in increasingly difficult
battles in one match against two other
teams
including bonzo's squad ender devises a
novel strategy of sacrificing part of
his team to achieve a goal
impressing gref bonzo a costs ender in
the bathroom after the match
but ender fights back and bonzo falls
during the struggle becoming seriously
injured distraught over this ender
prepares to quit battle school
but graf has valentine speak to him and
convince him to continue
graf takes ender to humanity's forward
base on a former formic plant near their
world there ender meets rackham who
explains how he spotted the shared mind
nature of the formics to stop the attack
50 years prior
ender finds that his former squad
members are also here to help him train
in computerized simulations of large
fleet
combat rackham puts special emphasis on
the fleet's molecular detachment device
that is capable of disintegrating matter
ender's training is rigorous and
anderson expresses concern that they are
pushing ender too fast
but graff notes that they have run out
of time to replace ender
ender's final test is monitored by
several of the fleet commanders
as the simulation starts ender finds his
fleet over the formic home world
and vastly outnumbered he orders most of
his fleet to
sacrifice themselves to protect the md
long enough to fire on the home world
the resulting chain reaction burns over
the surface of the planet
killing the entire population the
simulation ends
and ender believes the test is over but
the commanders restart the video screens
showing that the destruction of the
formic home world was real
and ender had been controlling the real
fleet this time
despite graff's assurance that he will
be known as a hero ender is
furious as he feels responsible for the
annihilation
and that everyone will remember him as a
killer
as ender struggles with his emotions he
recognizes one of the formic structures
nearby
similar to the ruined castle from the
game and believing they were trying to
communicate with him
races out toward it he follows the path
set by the game
and encounters a dying formic queen the
queen acknowledges ender's role in the
genocide of their race
but that he simply wanted peace in the
long term and forgives him
the queen later gives ender a queen egg
that it had been protecting
after the war ender is promoted to
admiral given a small ship
and left to his own devices in a letter
to valentine
he tells her that he is going into deep
space determined to form a new formic
colony with the queen egg